Apple Has Many Growth OpportunitiesApple could find future growth in a number of massive markets.By Wayne Duggan|May 15, 2017, at 8:49 a.m. SaveMoreApple Has Many Growth OpportunitiesMoreAnalysts say Apple has several options to consider for growth, including in its core business.(GETTY IMAGES)Every time Apple Inc (ticker: AAPL) adds a billion dollars to its market cap, the question of what the world's largest public company can do to keep growing becomes more and more important.Following another strong quarterly earnings report, Apple now has a market cap of $816 billion.According to a new report from Bank of America analyst Wamsi Mohan, Apple has a number of potential growth avenues to pursue in coming years with addressable markets worth hundreds of billions of dollars.Before Apple shareholders even contemplate the company entering uncharted business territory, Mohan says Apple has plenty of growth potential left in its core businesses.[See: 9 Ways to Buy Stocks That Everyone Needs.]"Apple still has room to grow and gain share in the traditional areas of smartphones, tablets, wearables and desktops/laptops," Mohan says.Bank of America estimates that Apple has a $350 billion total remaining available market in these core areas as it competes for market share with Samsung, LG Electronics and others.Outside of Apple's traditional businesses, Mohan says Apple could also choose to pursue a number of mostly untapped markets, such as TVs, streaming music and video services, virtual reality devices and intelligent home assistants.Mohan says the total addressable market for these non-traditional Apple businesses is more than $295 billion. And while competition in many of these markets is fierce, he says Apple wouldn't necessarily be starting from scratch.SPONSOREDSpeak with the Right Financial Advisor For YouFinding the right financial advisor that fits your needs doesn’t have to be hard. SmartAsset’s free tool matches you with top fiduciary financial advisors in your area in 5 minutes. Each advisor has been vetted by SmartAsset and is legally bound to act in your best interests. If you’re ready to be matched with local advisors that will help you achieve your financial goals, get started now."Apple, with its immense net cash of $158 billion, can easily enter most markets through M&A," Mohan says.Earlier this month, Citi analyst Jim Suva said he estimates there is a 40 percent chance Apple will buy Netflix (NFLX) and a 25 percent chance Apple will acquire Walt Disney Co. (DIS) to make a big splash in the streaming video market.In addition to the non-traditional businesses mentioned, Mohan says Apple could also choose to make a major push into the health care business with monitoring devices and the premium auto business, which represents roughly a $700 billion global available market.[See: 7 Dividend Stocks to Buy That Pay More Each Year.]Based on Mohan's analysis, it seems the larger Apple grows, the more growth opportunities that open up for the company. Bank of America maintains a "buy" rating for Apple and has raised its price target for the stock from $155 to $180.XNAS: AAPL|4:00:00 PM156.10PRICE (USD)2.15(1.40%)DAILY CHANGE52 WEEK LOW91.5052 WEEK HIGH156.42